# How to Contribute to an Open Source Project

So you've found that sweet open source project that you want to get involved
with. Now what? The first thing you should do is look for that project's guide
on how to get started with contributing. Often, this will be in a file called
CONTRIBUTING, or on the project's wiki. These guides will often explain
everything you need to know about how the project management team expects people
to work. Things often covered include how to build and test the project, how to
submit patches, and what communication channels to pay attention to. Node.js has
a great [contributing guide](https://github.com/joyent/node/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
if you'd like to see an example of what these files often contain.

If the project you'd like to contribute to doesn't have such a guide, it's not
that big of a deal. It probably just means that the project hasn't seen that
many external contributors, or that it just uses a very standard workflow. If
the project is hosted on GitHub or BitBucket, chances are the project uses
GitHub Flow for code contributions.
[This guide](https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/) by GitHub has a
pretty good description of how the process works. The project probably uses
GitHub Issues as an issue tracker, which is a very easy to use system.

Alright, so you've read the guide, and figured out how the project works, and
you're ready to start making a difference. Where do you start? The easiest way
to join the community is by filing and commenting on issues. The first step of
fixing a problem is making sure it's known. Filing good, descriptive issues is
extremely helpful to the project maintainers, as it tells them where they should
be focusing their efforts. Keeping track of and reviewing pull requests is
another great way to get involved. It helps you stay up to date with what's
happening with the project, and who knows, maybe you'll spot the next
project-breaking typo that slipped past everyone else.

Another great way to ease your way into a project is by doing some repository
cleanup. This can include updating documentation, making sure code fits the
project's standards, or making the readme prettier. All of these are tasks that
are very important, but often project contributors won't take the time to do
them themselves.

Once you've settled into working with the project's community, it may finally be
time to start writing code. This can be a daunting task; submitting your first
patch is definitely a scary thing to undertake. When deciding what to tackle
first, it's probably best to start with something relatively simple that has
already been documented to increase your chances of having the patch accepted.
The simple the changes, and the easier your code is to read, the more likely it
is that someone will review it quickly, and merge it. The patch is also more
likely to be accepted if it solves an issue that people are already looking out
for.
